.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii tablesnap.1
.\"
.TH TABLESNAP 1 "August 2015"
.SH NAME
tablesnap \- cassandra backup utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tablesnap [-hraB] [-k
.I AWS_KEY
.B ] [-s
.I AWS_SECRET
.B ] [--aws-token
.I AWS_TOKEN
.B ] [-p
.I PREFIX
.B ] [--without-index] [--with-sse] [--keyname-separator
.I KEYNAME_SEPARATOR
.B ] [-t
.I THREADS
.B ] [-n
.I NAME
.B ] [--md5-on-start] [--listen-events
.I {IN_MOVED_TO,IN_CLOSE_WRITE}
.B [-e
.I EXCLUDE
.B ] [-i
.I INCLUDE
.B ] [--max-upload-size
.I MAX_UPLOAD_SIZE
.B ] [--multipart-chunk-size
.I MULTIPART_CHUNK_SIZE
.B ]
.I bucket paths
.B [paths ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tablesnap
uses inotify to monitor a directory for events and reacts to them by spawning a
thread to upload new files to Amazon S3, along with a JSON-formatted list of
what other files were in the directory at the time of the copy.
.I bucket
is the name of the S3 bucket to upload files to and
.I paths
is one or more directories to monitor for changes.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-k, --aws-key=AWS_KEY"
Amazon S3 Key (defaults to
.B AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
in environment)
.IP "-s, --aws-secret=AWS_SECRET"
Amazon S3 Secret (defaults to
.B AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
in environment)
.IP "--aws-token=AWS_SECURITY_TOKEN"
Amazon S3 Token (defaults to
.B AWS_SECURITY_TOKEN
in environment)
.IP "-r, --recursive"
recursively watch the given path(s) for new SSTables
.IP "-a, --auto-add"
automatically start watching new subdirectories within path(s)
.IP "-B, --backup"
backup existing files to S3 if they're not already there
.IP "-p, --prefix"
set a string prefix for files uploaded to S3
.IP "--without-index"
do not store a JSON representation of the current directory listing
(-listdir.json) in S3 when uploading a file
.IP "--with-sse"
enable server-side encryption for all uploads to S3
.IP "--keyname-separator=SEPARATOR"
separator between the filename and path in S3 keys (default ':')
.IP "-t, --threads=THREADS"
number of writer threads (default 4)
.IP "-n, --name=NAME"
use this name to identify files uploaded from this host (defaults to your
host's FQDN)
.IP "--md5-on-start"
compute the MD5 checksum of every monitored file on startup
.IP "--listen-events={IN_MOVED_TO,IN_CLOSE_WRITE}"
which inotify events to listen for. (default IN_MOVED_TO)
.IP "-e, --exclude=PATTERN"
exclude files matching this regular expression from upload. Cannot be used with
.B --include
.I If neither --exclude or --include are defined, all files matching "-tmp" are
excluded
.IP "-i, --include=PATTERN"
opposite of
.B --exclude
.IP "--max-upload-size=NUMBER"
max size in MB for files to be uploaded before switching to multipart mode. (default 5120)
.IP "--multipart-chunk-size=NUMBER"
chunk size in MB for multipart uploads (default 256)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
Amazon access key to be used if
.B --aws-key
is not specified
.IP AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
Amazon secret key to be used if
.B --aws-secret
is not specified
.IP AWS_SECURITY_TOKEN
Amazon security token to be used if
.B --aws-token
is not specified
.IP TABLESNAP_SYSLOG
If set, all log messages will be sent to syslog under the
.I DAEMON
facility instead of stderr
.IP TDEBUG
If set, logs are emitted at the
.I DEBUG
level (default INFO)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr:
 
Skipping
.I filename
due to exclusion rule
.RS
The given file is not being uploaded because it matched the pattern given by
.I --exclude
.RE
Failed uploading
.I filename
Aborting.
.RS
An unhandled exception was caught when trying to upload a file.
.B tablesnap(1)
will terminate itself and all child threads after emitting this message.
.RE
Failed to lookup keyname
.I name
after
.I number
retries
.RS
While trying to check whether or not the key has already been uploaded to S3
and MD5 is valid, the request failed and the maximum number of retries were
exceeded.
.RE
Failed to open file:
.I filename
.RS
The file could not be opened when trying to verify it's MD5 checksum.
.RE
Failed to upload directory listing
.RS
Uploading the -listdir.json file failed due to an uncaught exception and the
maximum number of retries was exceeded.
.RE
Error uploading part
.I number
.RS
One of the uploads failed during a multipart upload. The multipart operation
will be cancelled and retried from the beginning.
.RE
Failed to upload file contents
.RS
The file upload failed and the max number of retries were exceeded.
.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs to the maintainers at https://github.com/JeremyGrosser/tablesnap/issues
.SH AUTHORS
Jeremy Grosser <jeremy@synack.me>
Jorge A Gallegos <kad@blegh.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tablechop (1),
.BR tableslurp (1)
